### Bandit
I had attempted [Bandit](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit0.html) three times in the past two years, once when I first got my CompTIA A+ certification and after I had returned from a networking event where it was recommended to me, another earlier this year when I was juggling resume buffing with job hunting, and a third time was the end of October 2025, when I decided that completing the whole of Bandit would be easily achievable in a week or two if I just focused most of my attention on it.

The experience was interesting. I, personally, don't have the luxury of time to spend several days on one problem, let alone a majority of one day one one problem. The thing I need with these practices was understanding, but also speed. There was no professor to explain to me where I went wrong. Much of my post education studies were muddied by this sense of needing to do it by myself-- that I was not allowed to look up any guides or tutorials under any circumstances. That sense of shame has ultimately led to stagnation-- stagnation that I would rather not repeat. It was important to admit to myself that I was out of my depth in this field. And if I was out of my depth, then there was nothing wrong with completing the task with guided assistance. It would be like learning how to crochette: You look up and follow the patterns in order to learn how to create what you want. 

However, blindly reading a guide would not be enough for me. I knew, even with my new sense of determination, that if all I did was read tutorials I wouldn't get anywhere. So I approached things differently-- I would follow along the tutorials and would write not only the steps to the solutions, but any relevant information it came to solving them. This meant anything the tutorial told me, as well as unique things that came up as a result of the tutorial being slightly out of date, something I will go into more detail a little later. But to me, documenting my journey was just as important as walking it-- it left a record to look back to when I was finished with each problem. When I felt confident in a particular problem's solution, I would refer to my own notes instead of following the tutorial. And in many cases, such as where the tutorial was outdated, it served as a way to leave a record for what was changed in the period between when they had written their write up and now. 

_(The write up I used to follow along was done by [MayADevBe](https://mayadevbe.me/posts/overthewire/bandit/level0/). Though it's a bit outdated, it's an excellent write up that makes sure to inform you about what exactly you are using to solve your porblems, and not just giving you a solution.)_ 

One thing I noticed from the changes made to Bandit was the measure made to discourage those from following guides and tutorials. I liked a majority of these-- they gave me pause and let me find out which part of the puzzle I was missing. I did find them amusing at times as well, such as when I would come across a problem that I had solved in a previous attempt be slightly altered so that the old solution didn't work as well. The attitude towards people like me, who use guides for one reason or another, is a little prickly, but I didn't mind it. It's good to get some pushback in some ways, and it's through these differences that I was able to learn a bit more than I would've without it. I don't think these changes really harm the overall game. Afterall, I was able to make it through just fine. 

A struggle I repeatedly encountered was the terminal I was using: cygwin. I had used cygwin in college for a low level C assignments, and was delighted to see that I could use it for Bandit as well. I was much more comfortable with the linux command line than window's, and many of the guides would use them as well. However, I soon learned of some of cygwin's quirks, such as the fact that I didn't download any text editors or git when I installed it initially, and through my attempts to install those two things, it would fail time and time again. This would lead to me needing to play with permissions; I would need to change permissions accordingly both inside _and_ outside of the terminal in order for things to work correctly. It _was_ useful for learning just what you can do with the linux command line and the few workarounds I needed to use in order to properly have a key working. However there was a point where the confusion using cygwin caused was not worth the hassle anymore, namely when an attempt to make and use an sshkey continued to fail, leading me to learn the wrong lesson and for it to only be corrected when I decided to use a virtual machine instead. For the remainder of the exercises I used kali linux with no problem, and was able to complete the rest of the problems with ease.

There was one time where I did need to ask another for help with my problem, namely, on problem [25->26](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit26.html). This was the problem described above, where the issues with using my workarounds with cygwin caused me to learn the incorrect lesson. My key wasn't being accepted no matter what I did, and I wasn't sure what I was doing wrong. I ended up joining the official discord and connecting with someone who was on the same problem as me. It wasn't very long where I learned what my issue was. When they described making a key on their computer (something I had attempted to do many times) I knew instantly what was wrong. I do think it's a bit unfortunate that I ran into that roadblock, but I'm very grateful that there was at least someone there I could compare experiences with. In this age where search results are slowly becoming more unreliable, it's always nice to be able to connect to a real person and speak with them about an issue. Speaking with them also allowed me to look up some more resources than simply following the guide. While it's nice to be given the tools you need directly to try and solve the porblem, I did enjoy looking up additional resources for potential future use.

Overall, my experience completeing Bandit was mostly pain free. There were some curves, some caused by my own hardware, some caused by the team trying to discourage learners like me, but overall I felt like everything was within my capacity to learn. I will definitely return to play more of the Over The Wire wargames.
